### Task 6.2: Ingest real-time/historical data into KQL DB

1. Once the database is created, **click** on the dropdown of 'Get data' and then **click** on 'Event Hubs'.

2. Click on + New table and type the name by clicking on +++**thermostat**+++ 

    !IMAGE[task-5.2.2.png](instructions240153/task-5.2.2.png)

3. **scroll right** and select the **Create new connection** radio button. **Paste** the value for 'Event Hub namespace' by clicking on +++**adx-thermostat-occupancy-@lab.LabInstance.Id**+++  and enter 'Event Hub' value by clicking on +++**thermostat**+++.

	!IMAGE[3so5uj54.png](instructions249094/3so5uj54.png)

4. Scroll down. For Authentication kind, select **Shared Access Key**, for the Shared Access Key Name enter by clicking on +++**thermostat**+++ and then for the Shared Access Key paste the value by clicking on +++**@lab.Variable(evhsaskey)**+++ in the 'Shared Access Key' and click on the **Save** button.

5. After you click on the Save button, **select** $default 'Consumer group' and click on 'Next' button.

	!IMAGE[task-5.2.5-5.png](instructions240153/task-5.2.5-5.png)


	>**Note:** In the schema tab, data loading will take some time.

6. In the Inspect tab, **click** on the dropdown button next to 'format', **select** 'JSON' and **click** on the 'Finish' button.

    !IMAGE[task-5.2.10.png](instructions240153/task-5.2.10.png)

7. **Wait** for the ingestion to complete, you will notice green checks that denote the completion. Finally, **click** on the 'Close' button.

	!IMAGE[i6p8f9yw.jpg](instructions249094/i6p8f9yw.jpg)

8. Hard refresh the page using **'Ctrl + Shift + R'** to see the
details for the ingested data.
	
Real-time data from the event hub has been ingested successfully into the KQL Database.
